[doc] Refactor "Getting Started" (#5902)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/lang/articles/get-started/index.md

Taichi also has a built-in ahead-of-time (AOT) system that allows users to export the code as binary/shader files. These files can then be invoked in C/C++, without the Python environment. See [AOT deployment](../deployment/ndarray_android.md) for more details.

## Requirements

1. Python: 3.7/3.8/3.9/3.10 (64-bit)
2. OS: Windows, OS X, and Linux (64-bit)
3. Supported GPU backends (optional): CUDA, Vulkan, OpenGL, Metal, DirectX 11

## Installation

Taichi is available as a PyPI package:

```bash
pip install taichi
```
Taichi can also be built from the source, although we do not recommend this for first-time users except those who what to try the most up-to-date features. See our [developer's guide](../contribution/dev_install.md) for full details.

To verify the installation is successful, in the terminal run

```bash
ti gallery
```

This will pop up a window like follows:

<img style="margin:0px auto;display:block" width=480 src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/taichi-gallery.png"/>

Then click to choose and run the examples.

> You can also run the command `ti example` to see the full list of official examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also run the command `ti example` to view the full list of selected Taichi demos.
```

## Hello, world!

We introduce the Taichi programming language through a very basic fractal example, the [Julia fractal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julia_set):

```python title=fractal.py
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm

ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)

n = 320
pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))

@ti.func
def complex_sqr(z):  # complex square of a 2D vector
    return tm.vec2(z[0] * z[0] - z[1] * z[1], 2 * z[0] * z[1])

@ti.kernel
def paint(t: float):
    for i, j in pixels:  # Parallelized over all pixels
        c = tm.vec2(-0.8, tm.cos(t) * 0.2)
        z = tm.vec2(i / n - 1, j / n - 0.5) * 2
        iterations = 0
        while z.norm() < 20 and iterations < 50:
            z = complex_sqr(z) + c 
            iterations += 1
        pixels[i, j] = 1 - iterations * 0.02

gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

> You can run the above code by either saving it to your disk or directly running `ti example fractal` in the terminal, this will give you an animation:

Author: Does the word "Save" should be capitalized here?

2. OS: Windows, OS X, and Linux (64-bit)
3. Supported GPU backends (optional): CUDA, Vulkan, OpenGL, Metal, DirectX 11

## Installation

Taichi is available as a PyPI package:

```bash
pip install taichi
```
Taichi can also be built from the source, although we do not recommend this for first-time users except those who what to try the most up-to-date features. See our [developer's guide](../contribution/dev_install.md) for full details.

To verify the installation is successful, in the terminal run

```bash
ti gallery
```

This will pop up a window like follows:

<img style="margin:0px auto;display:block" width=480 src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/taichi-gallery.png"/>

Then click to choose and run the examples.

You can also run the command `ti example` to see the full list of official examples.

## Hello, world!

We introduce the Taichi programming language through a very basic fractal example, the [Julia fractal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julia_set):

```python title=fractal.py
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm

ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)

n = 320
pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))

@ti.func

> def complex_sqr(z):  # complex square of a 2d vector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
def complex_sqr(z):  # complex square of a 2D vector
```

    return tm.vec2(z[0] * z[0] - z[1] * z[1], 2 * z[0] * z[1])

@ti.kernel
def paint(t: float):
    for i, j in pixels:  # Parallelized over all pixels
        c = tm.vec2(-0.8, tm.cos(t) * 0.2)
        z = tm.vec2(i / n - 1, j / n - 0.5) * 2
        iterations = 0
        while z.norm() < 20 and iterations < 50:
            z = complex_sqr(z) + c 
            iterations += 1
        pixels[i, j] = 1 - iterations * 0.02

gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

You can run the above code by either saving it to your disk or directly running `ti example fractal` in the terminal, this will give you an animation:

<center>

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/fractal.gif)

</center>

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

### import taichi

The first two lines

```python
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm
```

> import Taichi as a package as well as its `math` module. The `math` module contains some frequently used math functions and built-in vector types of small dimensions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import Taichi as a package as well as its `math` module. The `math` module contains some frequently used math functions and built-in vector/matrix types of small dimensions, such as `vec2` for 2D real vectors and `mat3` for 3x3 real matrices.
```

The line

```python
ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)
```

calls the `ti.init` function to initialize some environment variables. The `init` function accepts several arguments to allow users to custom the runtime program, for now, we only introduce the most important one, namely the `arch`. 

The argument `arch` specifies the *backend* that actually executes the compiled code. A backend can be either `ti.cpu` or `ti.gpu`. For `ti.gpu` Taichi will look for GPU architectures in the order `ti.cuda`, `ti.vulkan`, `ti.opengl/ti.metal` and choose the first available one. If no GPU device is found, Taichi will fall back to your CPU device. 

You can also directly specify the backend like `arch=ti.cuda`, Taichi will raise an error if this architecture is unavailable.

### Define a field

The next two lines

```python
n = 320
pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))
```

> defines a field of shape (640, 320) of float type. `field` is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can think of it as an analog of Numpy's `ndarray` or Pytorch's `tensor`, but we emphasize here that Taichi's `field` is a much more powerful and flexible data structure than the other two counterparts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
defines a field of shape (640, 320) of float type. `field` is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can think of it as an analog of Numpy's `ndarray` or PyTorch's `tensor`, but we emphasize here that Taichi's `field` is a much more powerful and flexible data structure than the other two counterparts. For example, Taichi fields can be [spatially sparse](..), and can easily [switch between data layouts](...). 
```

> 1. Taichi's field can be hierarchized in a tree-like manner.
> 2. Field can store scalar, matrix, struct, and quant types.
> 3. Field can be sparsely or dynamically allocated.
> 4. Field can easily switch between the row-major/column-major modes.
> 5. Field has built-in automatic differentiation support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> You will meet these features in more advanced tutorials later. For now, you can think of `pixels` just as a dense 2D floating array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will meet these features in more advanced tutorials later. You can now think of `pixels` as a dense 2D array.
```

### Kernels and functions

Between lines 9-22 we defined two functions. One decorated by `@ti.func` and one decorated by `@ti.kernel`. Such functions are called *Taichi functions* and *kernels* respectively. They are not executed by Python's interpreter but will be taken over by Taichi's JIT compiler and will execute rapidly on your parallel CPU cores or GPU.
    
The main differences between Taichi functions and kernels are:
    

> 1. kernels are the entrances for Taichi to take over the subsequent task. Kernels can be called anywhere in your program, but Taichi functions can only be called by kernels or by other Taichi functions. In the above example, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Kernels are the entrances for Taichi to take over the subsequent task. Kernels can be called anywhere in your program, but Taichi functions can only be called by kernels or by other Taichi functions. In the above example, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.
```

2. The arguments and returns of a kernel function must all be type hinted, Taichi functions do not have such restrictions. In the above example, the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted, but the argument `z` in the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is not.
3. Nested kernels are *not supported*, nested functions are *supported*. Recursively calling Taichi functions are *not supported for now*.
    
:::tip
​    
For those who come from the world of CUDA, `ti.func` corresponds to `__device__` and `ti.kernel` corresponds to `__global__`.

For those who come from the world of OpenGL, `ti.func` corresponds to the usual function in GLSL and `ti.kernel` corresponds to a `compute shader`.
​:::

### Parallel for loop

> The real magic happens in line 15:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The real magic happens at line 15:
```

slug: /
---

# Getting Started

> Taichi is a high-performance parallel programming language using Python as the frontend. The commom usage is, users write their computation-intensive tasks in python obeying a few extra rules imposed by Taichi and use the two decorators `ti.func` and `ti.kernel` to tell Taichi to take over the functions that implement the task. Taichi's just-in-time compiler will compile these functions to machine code and all subsequent calls to them are executed on multi-CPU cores or GPU. In typical scenarios like physical simulations or real-time renderings, this will usually give a 50~100x speed up compared to native python!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taichi is a high-performance parallel programming language using Python as the frontend. Taichi users write their computation-intensive tasks in Python obeying a few extra rules imposed by Taichi, and use the two decorators `ti.func` and `ti.kernel` to tell Taichi to take over the functions that implement the task. Taichi's just-in-time (JIT) compiler will compile these functions to machine code and all subsequent calls to them are executed on multi-CPU cores or GPUs. In typical compute-intense scenarios (such as numerical simulations), this will usually give a 50-100x speed up over native python!
```

> Taichi also has a built-in ahead-of-time compiling module that allows users to export the code as shader files that can be called without the python environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taichi also has a built-in ahead-of-time (AOT) system that allows users to export the code as binary/shader files. These files can then be invoked in C/C++, without the Python environment.
```

Taichi also has a built-in ahead-of-time compiling module that allows users to export the code as shader files that can be called without the python environment.

## Requirements:

1. Python: 3.7/3.8/3.9/3.10 (64-bit)
2. OS: Windows (64-bit), OSX, Linux (64-bit)
3. GPUS: Cuda, Vulkan, OpenGL, Metal, dx11

## Installation

Taichi is available as a PyPI package:

```bash
pip install taichi
```
Taichi can also be built from the source, although we do not recommend this for first-time users except those who what to try the most up-to-date features. See our [eveloper's guide](../contribution/dev_install.md) for full details.

To verify the installation is successful, in terminal run

```bash
ti gallery
```

This will pop up a window like follows:

<center>

> ![image](https://github.com/taichi-dev/taichi_assets/blob/master/static/imgs/ti_gallery.png?raw=true)

Reviewer 2: Please use a more polished screenshot :-)

```python title=fractal.py
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm

ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)

n = 320
pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))

@ti.func
def complex_mul(z, w):  # complex multiplicatwo of two 2d vectors
    return tm.vec2(z.x * w.x - z.y * w.y, z.x * w.y + z.y * w.x)

@ti.kernel
def paint(t: float):
    for i, j in pixels:  # Parallelized over all pixels
        c = tm.vec2(-0.8, tm.cos(t) * 0.2)
        z = tm.vec2(i / n - 1, j / n - 0.5) * 2
        iterations = 0
        while z.norm() < 20 and iterations < 50:
            z = complex_mul(z, z) + c
            iterations += 1
        pixels[i, j] = 1 - iterations * 0.02

gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

You can run the above code by either save it to your disk or directly run `ti example fractal` in terminal, this will give you an animation:

<center>

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/fractal.gif)

</center>

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

> + The first two lines

Reviewer 2: Explain what `tm` is, or stick to the original `ti.Vector([...])` solution?

    The main differences between taichi functions and kernels are:

    1. kernels are the entrances for Taichi to take over the subsequent task, kernels can be called anywhere in your program, but taichi functions can only be called by kernels or by other taichi funtions. In the above example, the taichi function `complex_mul` is called by the kernel `paint`.
    2. The arguments and returns of a kernel function must all be type hinted, taichi functions do not have such restrictions. In the above example the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted, but the arguments `z,w`in the taichi function `complex_mul` are not.
    3. Nested kernels are *not supported*, nested functions are *supported*. Recursively calling taichi functions are *not supported for now*.

    :::tip
​
    For those who come from the world of CUDA, `ti.func` corresponds to `__device__` and `ti.kernel` corresponds to `__global__`.

    For those who come from the world of

>     OpenGL, `ti.func` corresponds to the usual function in glsl and `ti.kernel` corresponds to `buffer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    OpenGL, `ti.func` corresponds to the usual function in glsl and `ti.kernel` corresponds to a compute shader.
```

gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

You can run the above code by either saving it to your disk or directly running `ti example fractal` in the terminal, this will give you an animation:

<center>

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/fractal.gif)

</center>

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

### Import Taichi

> The first two lines

Author: nice!

gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))

for i in range(1000000):
    paint(i * 0.03)
    gui.set_image(pixels)
    gui.show()
```

To run this program: Save the code above to your disk or execute the command `ti example fractal` directly in the terminal.
You will see the following animation:

<center>

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taichi-dev/public_files/master/taichi/fractal.gif)

</center>

Let's dive into this simple Taichi program.

### Import Taichi

```python
import taichi as ti
import taichi.math as tm
```

The first two lines serve to import Taichi and its `math` module. The `math` module contains some frequently used math functions as well as the built-in vectors and matrices of small dimensions, such as `vec2` for 2D real vectors and `mat3` for 3 x 3 real matrices.

```python
ti.init(arch=ti.gpu)
```

> This line calls the `ti.init` function to initialize some environment variables. The `init` function accepts several arguments to allow users to customize the runtime program. For now, we only introduce the most important one, namely the `arch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This line calls the `ti.init` function to initialize some environment variables. The argument passed to the `init` function allows you to customize your runtime program. For now, we only introduce the most important argument, namely, `arch`.
```

### Define a field

Let's move on to the next two lines.

```python
n = 320
pixels = ti.field(dtype=float, shape=(n * 2, n))
```

Here, we define a field whose shape is (640, 320) and whose elements are float-type data. `field` is the most important and frequently used data structure in Taichi. You can compare it to NumPy's `ndarray` or PyTorch's `tensor`. But we need to emphasize that Taichi's `field` is more powerful and flexible than the two counterparts. For example, a Taichi field can be [spatially sparse](../basic/sparse.md) and can easily [switch between different data layouts](../basic/layout.md).

You will come across the advanced features of `field` in other scenario-based tutorials. For now, it would suffice for you to understand that the field `pixels` is a dense 2D array.

### Kernels and functions

Between Line 9 and Line 22, we define two functions, one decorated with `@ti.func` and the other with `@ti.kernel`. They are called the *Taichi function* and *kernel*, respectively. Taichi functions and kernels are not executed by Python's interpreter; they are taken over by Taichi's JIT compiler and deployed to your parallel CPU cores or GPU.

> The main differences between Taichi functions and kernels are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main differences between Taichi functions and kernels:
```

1. Kernels are the entry points where Taichi kicks in and takes over the task. Kernels can be called anywhere, anytime in your program, but Taichi functions can only be called from inside kernels or from inside other Taichi functions. In the example above, the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is called by the kernel `paint`.

> 2. A kernel *must* take type-hinted arguments and returns type-hinted results; but Taichi functions do not require type hinting compulsorily. In the example above, the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted, but the argument `z` in the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A kernel *must* take type-hinted arguments and return type-hinted results; but Taichi functions do not require type hinting compulsorily. In the example above, the argument `t` in the kernel `paint` is type hinted, but the argument `z` in the Taichi function `complex_sqr` is not.
```

3. Taichi *supports* nested functions but *does not support* nested kernels. Calling Taichi functions recursively is *not supported for now*.

:::tip
​
For those who come from the world of CUDA, `ti.func` corresponds to `__device__` and `ti.kernel` corresponds to `__global__`.

For those who come from the world of OpenGL, `ti.func` corresponds to the usual function in GLSL and `ti.kernel` corresponds to a `compute shader`.
​:::

> ### Parallel for loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Parallel for loops
```

The real magic happens at Line 15:

```python
for i, j in pixels:
```

This is a `for` loop at the outermost scope in a Taichi kernel and thus is *automatically parallelized*.

> Taichi offers a handy syntax sugar: It parallelizes any `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel. This means that you can parallel your task using just one plain loop, without the need to know what is going on under the hood, be it thread allocation/recycling or memory management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taichi offers a handy syntax sugar: It parallelizes any `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel. This means that you can parallelize your tasks using just one plain loop, without the need to know what is going on under the hood, be it thread allocation/recycling or memory management.
```

For those who come from the world of OpenGL, `ti.func` corresponds to the usual function in GLSL and `ti.kernel` corresponds to a `compute shader`.

:::

### Parallel for loops

The real magic happens at Line 15:

```python
for i, j in pixels:
```

This is a `for` loop at the outermost scope in a Taichi kernel and thus is *automatically parallelized*.

Taichi offers a handy syntax sugar: It parallelizes any `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel. This means that you can parallelize your tasks using just one plain loop, without the need to know what is going on under the hood, be it thread allocation/recycling or memory management.

Note that the field `pixels` is treated as an iterator. As the indices of the field elements, `i` and `j` are integers falling in the ranges `[0, 2*n-1]` and `[0, n-1]`, respectively. They are arranged in the row-majored order, i.e., `(0, 0)`, `(0, 1)`, ..., `(0, n-1)`, `(1, n-1)`, ..., `(2*n-1, n-1)`.

You should keep it in mind that the *for loops not at the outermost scope will not be parallelized*; they are handled serially:

```python {3,7,14-15}
@ti.kernel
def fill():
    total = 0

>     for i in range(10): # Paralleled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for i in range(10): # Parallelized
```

        for j in range(5): # Serialized in each parallel thread
            total += i * j

    if total > 10:

>         for k in range(5):  # not paralleled since not at the outermost scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        for k in range(5):  # not parallelized since not at the outermost scope
```

    gui.show()
```

The line

```python
gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))
```

sets the window title and the window resolution in pixels. Then in each round (we just render the animation 1000000 times) we compute the updated fractal pattern stored in `pixels`, call `gui.set_image` to set the window content as those in `pixels`, and call `gui.show()` to display the result to the screen.

### Summary

Congratulations! After walking through the above short example, you have learned the most significant features of Taichi:

1. It compiles and runs your kernel functions on backends.
2. Outermost `for` loops are automatically paralleled.
3. The field data container and how to loop over it.

> These should be enough for you to get prepared for exploring the more advanced features of Taichi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These should prepare you well for more advanced features of Taichi!
```

    gui.show()
```

```python
gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))
```

> This line sets the window title and the resolution. We plan to iterate over the `pixels` 1000000 times, and the fractal pattern stored in `pixels` is updated accordingly. Then, we call `gui.set_image` to set the window and call `gui.show()` to display the synchronized result on the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This line sets the window title and the resolution. We plan to iterate over the `pixels` 1,000,000 times, and the fractal pattern stored in `pixels` is updated accordingly. Then, we call `gui.set_image` to set the window and call `gui.show()` to display the synchronized result on the screen.
```

### Summary

Congratulations! After walking through the above short example, you have learned the most significant features of Taichi:

1. Taichi compiles and runs Taichi functions and kernels on the designated backend.

> 2. A `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel is automatically paralleled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel is automatically parallelized.
```

    gui.show()
```

The line

```python
gui = ti.GUI("Julia Set", res=(n * 2, n))
```

> sets the window title and the window resolution in pixels. Then in each round (we just render the animation 1000000 times) we compute the updated fractal pattern stored in `pixels`, call `gui.set_image` to set the window content as those in `pixels`, and call `gui.show()` to display the result to the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This line sets the window title and the resolution. We plan to iterate over the `pixels` 1000000 times, and the fractal pattern stored in `pixels` is updated accordingly.  Then, we call `gui.set_image` to set the window and call `gui.show()` to display the synchronized result on the screen.
```

### Summary

Congratulations! After walking through the above short example, you have learned the most significant features of Taichi:

> 1. It compiles and runs your kernel functions on backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Taichi compiles and runs Taichi functions and kernels on the designated backend.
```

> 2. Outermost `for` loops are automatically paralleled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A `for` loop at the outermost scope in a kernel is automatically parallelized.
```

3. The field data container and how to loop over it.

> These should prepare you well for more advanced features of Taichi!

Reviewer: Now, you are well prepared to move on to the more advanced features of Taichi!
